# Part I: Symantec
For Part 1 of your homework assignment, you should primarily use the Symantec Internet Security Threat Report along with independent research to answer the following questions.

What is formjacking?
Incidents of formjacking—the use of malicious JavaScript code to steal credit card details and other information from payment forms on the checkout web pages of eCommerce sites—trended upwards in 2018




How many websites are compromised each month with formjacking code? 
Symantec data shows that 4,818 unique websites were compromised with formjacking code every month in 2018


What is Powershell?
PowerShell is a task automation and configuration management framework from Microsoft, consisting of a command-line shell and the associated scripting language.



What was the annual percentage increase in malicious Powershell scripts?
massive 1,000 percent increase in malicious PowerShell scripts blocked in 2018 on the endpoint. 


What is a coinminer?
coinminer malware is one of the newer malware threats. Unlike traditional ransomware, it works completely undetected on the user's device,r criminals surreptitiously run coinminers on victims’ devices without their knowledge




How much can data from a single credit card can be sold for? 
single credit card being sold for up to $45 on underground markets



How did Magecart successfully attack Ticketmaster? 
Magecart compromised a third-party chatbot, which loaded malicious code into the web browsers of visitors to Ticketmaster’s website, with the aim of harvesting customers’ payment data

What is one reason why there has been a growth of formjacking? 
The growth in formjacking in 2018 may be partially explained by the drop in the value of cryptocurrencies during the year:



Cryptojacking dropped by what percentage between January and December 2018?, 
cryptojacking activity declined by 52 percent between January and December2018.
If a web page contains a coinmining script, what happens? 
 the web page visitors’ computing power will be used to mine for cryptocurrency for as long as the web page is open




How does an exploit kit work?
The exploit kit gathers information on the victim machine, finds vulnerabilities and determines the appropriate exploit.



What does the criminal group SamSam specialize in? 
targeted ransomware attacks, breaking into networks and encrypting multiple computers across an organization before issuing a high-value ransom demand. 



How many SamSam attacks did Symantec find evidence of in 2018? 
During 2018, Symantec found evidence of 67 SamSam attacks, mostly against organizations in the U.S. 



Even though ransomware attacks declined in 2017-2018, what was one dramatic change that occurred? 
It was Symantec's increased efficiency of catching the ransomware.



In 2018, what was the primary ransomware distribution method? 
Email campaigns that use spear phishing.



What operating systems do most types of ransomware attacks still target?
Eighty-five percent of managed service providers (MSPs) say the Windows OS is targeted most frequently by ransomware attacks


What are “living off the land” attacks? What is the advantage to hackers? 
are a method that allows hackers to take control of your computers and other connected devices. ... The compromise happens once and from thereon, your computer will work for hackers without you knowing because antivirus software cannot detect such attacks



What is an example of a tool that’s used in “living off the land” attacks?
The most frequently executed tools observed by Symantec in Q1 2019 were net.exe, PowerShell, the certification utility, the task scheduler, and the WMI command line (WMIC).



What are zero-day exploits?
is the loose term for a recently discovered vulnerability or exploit for a vulnerability that hackers can use to attack systems



By what percentage did zero-day exploits decline in 2018? 
4%



What are two techniques that worms such as Emotet and Qakbot use?

Qakbot, a family of banking Trojans known for behaving like network worms. Like Emotet, Qakbot can self-propagate. Qakbot attempts brute force access to spread across networks and also uses “living-off-the-land” tools to propagate. It uses PowerShell to download 

What are supply chain attacks? By how much did they increase in 2018?
Supply chain attacks, which use loopholes in third-party services to strike a target, increased 78 percent between 2017 and 2018, and web attacks, which rely on malicious URLs and other online weapons, also spiked 78 percent.



What challenge do supply chain attacks and living off the land attacks highlight for organizations? 
Both supply chain and living-off-the-land attacks highlight the challenges facing organizations and individuals, with attacks increasingly arriving through trusted channels, using fileless attack methods or legitimate tools for malicious purposes.



The 20 most active groups tracked by Symantec targeted an average of how many organizations between 2016 and 2018? 
The 20 most active groups tracked by Symantec targeted an average of 55 organizations over the past three years, up from 42 between 2015 and 2017



How many individuals or organizations were indicted for cyber criminal activities in 2018? What are some of the countries that these entities were from? 
49 organizations and some of the countries are russia china iran and north korea



When it comes to the increased number of cloud cybersecurity attacks, what is the common theme? 
They have poor configurations 



What is the implication for successful cloud exploitation that provides access to memory locations that are normally forbidden? 
Hardware chips



What are two examples of the above cloud attack? 
Meltdown attack and specteri attack 

Regarding Internet of Things (IoT) attacks, what were the two most common infected devices and what percentage of IoT attacks were attributed to them? 
Routers and cameras



What is the Mirai worm and what does it do? 
Mirai is malware that infects smart devices that run on ARC processors, turning them into a network of remotely controlled bots or "zombies". This network of bots, called a botnet, is often used to launch DDoS attacks.




Why was Mirai the third most common IoT threat in 2018? 
worm remained an active threat and, with 16 percent of the attacks, was the third most common IoT threat in 2018.



What was unique about VPNFilter with regards to IoT threats?
maintaining a persistent presence on an infected device, even after a reboot.



What type of attack targeted the Democratic National Committee in 2019? 
 WikiLeaks hacked emails 



What were 48% of  malicious email attachments in 2018? 
             malicious spam emails 


What were the top two malicious email themes in 2018? 
Bill and email delivery 



What was the top malicious email attachment type in 2018? 
spam e-mails 



Which country had the highest email phishing rate? Which country had the lowest email phishing rate?
Canada  has the highest phishing rate
Suadi arabia has the lowest




What is Emotet and how much did it jump in 2018? 
Emotet is a malware infection that spreads through spam emails containing                  malicious Word or Excel documents. And it jump 16% in 2018



What was the top malware threat of the year? How many of those attacks were blocked?
Ransomware and 43999373 were blocked



Malware primarily attacks which type of operating system? 

Microsoft Windows, macOS, Android, and iOS


What was the top coinminer of 2018 and how many of those attacks were blocked? 
Webcoinminer , and 2,768,721 were blocked




What were the top three financial Trojans of 2018? 
Trickbot, Gozi, Ramnit, and IcedID



What was the most common avenue of attack in 2018? 
Using office macros to call powershel script attack




What is destructive malware? By what percent did these attacks increase in 2018? 
is malicious software with the capability to render affected systems inoperable and challenge reconstitution.
200 percent increase in the number of destructive attacks it's responded to since the second half of 2018.



What was the top user name used in IoT attacks? 
root



What was the top password used in IoT attacks? 
Admin or 123456



What were the top three protocols used in IoT attacks? What were the top two 

ports used SSH port 22 brute force attacks are the #1 attack type globally, followed by port 80 http web traffic, telnet, SIP port 5060, and then the alternate http port 8080. 




In the underground economy, how much can someone get for the following? 

Stolen or fake identity:  0.10 cents to 1.50 dollers
Stolen medical records: 0.10 to 35 dollers
Hacker for hire: 100 dollars +
Single credit card with full details: 1.00 dollars to 45 dollers
500 social media followers: 2 to 6 dollars 
